# @title Getting Started with Vedeu
# Getting Started with Vedeu

## Installation

First, install the gem locally:

    gem install vedeu

This will provide a new command to help build your client application. Similar
to Ruby on Rails, although not nearly as advanced as the Rails equivalent,
hopefully the `vedeu` command generators will get you off the ground:

    vedeu

## Generating a new application

The following command will build a new application. Substitute `your_app_name`
for your desired application name.

    vedeu new your_app_name

The generated files are a skeleton Vedeu client application. Let's take a look
at these files individually.

```bash
|
|- app_name/
|   |
    |- app/
    |   |- controllers/
    |   |   |- application_controller.rb
    |   |
    |   |- helpers/
    |   |   |- application_helper.rb
    |   |
    |   |- models/
    |   |   |- keymaps/
    |   |       |- _global_.rb
    |   |
    |   |- views/
    |       |- interfaces/
    |       |- templates/
    |
    |- bin/
    |   |- app_name
    |
    |- config/
    |   |- add_name
    |   |- configuration.rb
    |
    |- lib/
    |- test/
    |- vendor/
    |- application.rb
    |- Gemfile
```

### app/controllers/

The controllers directory is the place to store the events and behaviour logic
of your application. It will manage the choosing of views and models based on
previous choices. Think of them as the orchestrators of your application.

In web applications, the controller typically handles the routed request and
interacts with the models and sets up the views. In Vedeu, it does much the
same, minus the requests.

### app/helpers/

Ruby on Rails has a concept of helpers which are not very object-oriented, but
allow you to share functionality/behaviour across multiple views. Vedeu uses
this concept as it will be familiar to many Rails developers and might be
helpful to beginners.

### app/models/

Much like `lib`, this directory is for your application logic code. Some people
prefer to use `app/models`, others like to use `lib`. Some even use both!

### app/models/keymaps/

This will contain the global keymap (which affects all of your application)
plus any specific interface keymaps which only affect a certain interface when
in focus. By default the global keymap contains a few simple definitions:

- **`q`**

  **Quit**. Internally triggers the :_exit_ system event which in turn requests
  the application stops. This triggers the event :cleanup which the client
  application can bind to and perform any tidying up it wishes to perform
  before exiting.

- **`<esc>`**

  **Mode Switch**. Toggle between cooked and raw terminal modes.

- **`<tab>`**

  **Focus Next**. Focus the next interface in the focus list.

- **`<shift+tab>`**

  **Focus Previous**. Focus the previous interface in the focus list.

### app/views/

This will contain classes which produce the views needed by Vedeu to make your
application come alive!

### app/views/interfaces/

This will contain the information Vedeu needs to draw the various interfaces
and views of your application.

### app/views/templates/

This will house the templates your application will use to display views. You
can populate templates with generic view information and supplement it with
variable data from your application.

### bin/

This will contain executable Ruby scripts (or Bash, or shell language of your
choice) which will launch your application or provide command-line behaviours.

### config/

This will contain any configuration your application needs to run, plus the
configuration for Vedeu. This configuration affects the way Vedeu works with
your application.

### lib/

This is for code your application may use to support code you have in
`app/models`.

### test/

This is for the tests you might write to help ensure your application executes
in the way you expect.

### vendor/

This is for third-party code which your application might want to ship with.
Usually you will include various Ruby gems to provide functionality, but you
might want to do something special.


## Adding a new view to your application

The following command will build a new view within your application.
Substitute `some_view_name` for your desired application name.

    cd your_app_name
    vedeu view some_view_name

The generated files are skeleton Vedeu view files. Let's talk about the files it
will create and populate:

```bash
|
|- app_name/
|   |
    |- app/
    |   |- controllers/
    |   |   |- view_name_controller.rb
    |   |
    |   |- helpers/
    |   |   |- view_name_helper.rb
    |   |
    |   |- models/
    |   |   |- keymaps/
    |   |       |- view_name.rb
    |   |
    |   |- views/
    |       |- interfaces/
    |       |   |- view_name.rb
    |       |
    |       |- templates/
    |       |   |- view_name.erb
    |       |
    |       |- view_name.rb
    |...
```
